                  United States Court of Appeals

               FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT

         Argued March 5, 2002    Decided April 23, 2002 

                           No. 01-7078

                   Robert E. Hartline, et al., 
                            Appellants

                                v.

       Sheet Metal Workers' National Pension Fund, et al., 
                            Appellees

          Appeal from the United States District Court 
                  for the District of Columbia 
                           (98cv01274)

     David S. Preminger argued the cause for appellants.  With 
him on the briefs was George M. Chuzi.

     Steuart H. Thomsen argued the cause for appellees.  With 
him on the brief were Nicholas T. Christakos and Stephen M. 
Rosenblatt.

     Before:  Edwards and Randolph, Circuit Judges, and 
Williams, Senior Circuit Judge.

     Opinion for the Court filed Per Curiam.

     Per Curiam:  The parties have raised two main issues on 
appeal.  The first is whether a transferee court is bound by 
the substantive law of the transferor court when a federal law 
claim is transferred pursuant to 28 U.S.C. s 1404(a).  The 
second is whether the actions taken by the appellees with 
respect to the multiemployer pension plan were actions sub-
ject to review under the fiduciary duty provisions found in 
section 404(a)(1) of ERISA.  See 29 U.S.C. s 1104(a)(1).

     For the reasons stated by the district court in its memoran-
dum opinion of May 4, 1999, we affirm the district court's 
decision to apply the law of this Circuit.  See Hartline v. 
Sheet Metal Workers' Nat'l Pension Fund, No. 98-1274 
(D.D.C. May 4, 1999).  When a case that is governed by 
federal law is transferred from one federal court to another, 
the transferee court should decide the federal claim based on 
its own circuit's interpretation of the law.  See Korean Air 
Lines Disaster, 829 F.2d 1171 (D.C. Cir. 1987) (holding that 
transferee courts are not bound to apply the decisions of 
transferor courts with respect to federal law claims).

     In addition, for the reasons stated by the district court in 
its memorandum opinion of September 14, 2000, we affirm the 
district court's conclusion that the changes the appellees 
made to the multiemployer pension plan at issue in this case 
did not constitute a fiduciary act.  See Hartline v. Sheet 
Metal Workers' Nat'l Pension Fund, 134 F. Supp. 2d 1 
(D.D.C. 2000).  The Supreme Court made it clear in Curtiss-
Wright Corp. v. Schoonejongen, 514 U.S. 73, 78 (1995), Lock-
heed Corp. v. Spink, 517 U.S. 882 (1996), and Hughes Aircraft 
Co. v. Jacobson, 525 U.S. 432 (1999), that employers and plan 
sponsors do not act in a fiduciary capacity when they modify, 
adopt or amend plans.  Nothing in the Supreme Court's 
decisions or ERISA itself creates an exemption for multiem-
ployer pension plans.  Therefore, the district court correctly 
concluded that the multiemployer pension fund trustees in-
volved in this case did not act in a fiduciary capacity when 

they made changes affecting the determination of appellants' 
benefits.  See, e.g., Walling v. Brady, 125 F.3d 114 (3d Cir. 
1997) (holding that multiemployer pension fund trustees do 
not act in a fiduciary duty when designing or amending the 
plan).

                                                                             