# Toward a More Perfect US Supreme Court

## 0.  Summary

### What's the proposal?

I'd like your critical feedback on the following proposed amendment to the US
Constitution.  It's about how we appoint judges to the Supreme Court.  I'm very
proud of it.  Here's the key extract (lightly edited; scroll way down for the
full text):

    -- SUPREME COURT AMENDMENT --

    The Supreme Court of the United States shall have 10 seats.  A strict
    majority of votes shall determine the outcome of a case; but the most
    junior Justice may not vote except to break ties.

    On May 1st of each odd year, the most senior Justice shall retire.  These
    and other vacancies shall be filled within T=60 days as follows.
     (A) From among the judges of the Appellate Courts shall be identified the
         K=50 of most median seniority.
     (B) The Senate shall select from those K judges k=2 finalists as follows.
         (B.a) The N many Senators shall be randomly arranged into a sequence.
               This sequence shall be announced.
         (B.b) A list of 100+4 many names shall be prepared by duplicating
               the K judges as equally as may be.
         (B.c) Each Senator in sequence shall eliminate one name.  They shall
               announce this choice to the Senators who follow.
         (B.d) The k judges that remain listed shall become finalists.  Should
               more than k judges remain listed, the VP shall break ties.
     (C) Each Senator shall vote for any subset of the k finalists.  The
         finalist with the most votes shall become the newest Justice.

I call step (B.c) **whittling**.
(That weird number 4 is the smallest integer at least (Nk/K).)

### Why might one support the proposal?

Here are three quick highlights:

-   ANTIPARTISAN --- A Senate with 61 Republicans will select a Justice who
        among appeals judges is ~61st percentile, not 99th percentile, on the
        "Democrat-Republican" axis.  The process favors the broadly acceptable
        over the excellent-but-polarizing --- a boon to the Court's legitimacy.

-    DECISIVE --- Vacancies will be filled despite procedural shenanigans.
        Indeed, the process forces the Senate to choose from a fixed list of
        candidates rather than to confirm individual nominees.  So the Senate
        has no option to continually reject nominees.

-   REGULAR --- New justices periodically replace old ones, leading in effect
        to 18-year term limits.  These transitions threaten less to evenly
        divide and thus impair the Court, due to the most junior Justice.  We
        fix the number of voting justices to 9, preventing court packing.

In the following sections (1,2,3) I address several concerns about the
proposal.  Here are highlights:

- HIGH WORKLOAD --- *Asking 100 Senators to evaluate K=25 candidates is asking
        for a lot of work.  Would this burden impede their legislative roles?*

    Good point.  A Senator in theory closely reads tens of thousands of
        pages per year; in practice, they delegate this work to their staff and
        to experts they trust, and they avoid redundancy of work by
        coordinating into Senate committees and with party leaders.  The same
        delegation and coordination would help under my proposal.

    Step (C) also lessens the stakes of misjudgement of the K candidates: once
        the Senate has whittled down the list to k=2 finalists, they may
        conduct more careful interviews.

- BIASED MENU --- *Appointing judges who are "median" among appeals court
        judges /sounds/ good --- but does "median" imply "moderate"?*

    This is a tricky issue.  You're right that if 60% of
        judges are very red and 40% are very blue, then the median judge will
        be very red (a kind of temporal gerrymandering!).
    Do "moderate" judges exist in substantial
        number?  My preliminary analysis of voting patterns suggests that
        moderate judges do exist in the sense that the party of their
        appointing president does not well predict their voting patterns
        (see below).

    That said, the proposal might polarize appointments to the appeals courts,
        negating the moderacy we now observe.  I'd hope that by distributing
        the appointment process (across many years and people), we'd temper
        such polarization.  But maybe we'd just kick the can down the road.

### What's the rest of this document?

Mainly, this post advertises an amendment to the US Constitution.  Now may be a
good time to discussion such amendments: the Supreme Court's rulings this past
decade have enraged both social conservatives and social liberals, amplifying
concerns about the reach of the courts and the prospect of partisan court
packing.  I find it a heartening sign of change that, for the first time at
least since the Second World War, members of recent US Congresses (116th,
117th) have formally introduced Supreme Court amendments.

In its second role, this post is a diary of ideas for the design of
preference-aggregating procedures.  A democracy works (I hope!) when we
exchange ideas and learn from each other.  So here is my contribution.  Though
in my excitement I write as an advocate, I do try to note the gaps and main
uncertainties in my thought.  I'd be pleased to read your thoughts, including
questioning of my premises or value judgements.  I am quite curious for
insights from those of you familiar with systems beyond the US's.

##### _TABLE OF CONTENTS_

    Summary
        What's the proposal?
        Why might one support the proposal?
        What's the rest of this document?
        What might I count as a "fix"?
    Toward Decisive Designs
        Stalling (and limited government); decisive procedures
        Whittling for the Supreme Court
        Further mechanisms
        Bonus thoughts on budgeting and filibusters
    Toward Antipartisan Designs
        Gerrymandering (and consensus)
        Tension and balance ("continuity")
        Game theory analysis of whittling (hot potatos)
        Bonus thoughts on chamber leadership and House elections
    Toward Regular Designs
        Term limits, backups, transitions
        Presidential influence
        Changing parameters
        Bonus thoughts on our amendment process, districting boards, and DC
    Appendices
        Related ideas
        Agreeing on randomness
        Analysis of judge data
        Full text

##### _...AREN'T YOU FORGETTING XYZ?  OR, THIS SOUNDS LIKE ABC..._

I probably am / it probably does.  Please comment to teach me!

Note that I list this proposal's full text and discuss related ideas below
(scroll way down).  The full text explains what "most median seniority" means,
that the President would still appoint appeals court judges and hence the
future SCOTUS candidate lists, that the Vice President breaks ties, how
Congress may alter the mentioned numeric parameters, how the judiciary shall
gradually transition upon the amendment's ratification, and more.

###  Would this proposal "fix" the judiciary?

I don't know.

That's why I used the weasel word "toward" in the title.

I devised this amendment mostly on aesthetic grounds; I have no firm argument
that this system "is better for democracy" or "leads to wiser rulings" or
"threatens fewer constitutional crises" than the current system.

##### _WHAT MIGHT I COUNT AS A "FIX"?_

That said, my aesthetic sense is one disturbed by two specific problems I
perceive in the current appointment process:

-   unpredictable political hurricanes whenever a Justice dies; and

-   (apparent) partisanship and thus an erosion of the Court's legitimacy.

A more stable and nonpartisan system would strike me as more beautiful.  I
believe certain perverse incentives contribute as root causes to these two
problems.  Within simplified models of voting behavior that I describe below,
the new way materially weakens these incentives.  **IF** those "problems" are
actually so **AND** I correctly identified some of their root causes **AND**
the mentioned models are adequately robust **THEN** the amendment is a
promising step toward my desired, more beautiful judiciary.

**On parties.**
Note this personality quirk of mine: I regard "bipartisan" as far from
"nonpartisan", especially when the "bi" refers to a specific party system such
as the US's current one.  Parties are extra-constitutional organizations that,
though regulated, are in essence private.  So I find any canonization of
parties in law quite ugly.  Imagine if we amended Congress's enumerated
power-to-establish-post-offices by explicitly mentioning Fedex and Amazon!

I thus dislike ideas such as that popularized by Buttigieg (to mandate 5
"Republican" and 5 "Democratic" justices on a reformed Supreme Court).  This
might be a key way that your and my notions of "fix" diverge.

**On good faith.**
The structures I propose depend on good faith.  So do all constitutional
measures.  But some structures require less good faith: they provide "ratchets"
along which small not-too-courageous acts may add up, electoral "fuses" that
blow once a leader's tyranny outweighs their competence, and "levers" of
indirection to reduce a would-be tyrant's temptation and effect.

Made potent by some deep cultural magic, such mechanisms form the US
Constitution's core.  They feel *structural*, unlike, say, the Trial Amendments
(5,6,7,8), the Prohibition Amendments (18,21), or even arguably our cherished
Amendments 1 and 2.  Constitutional structure protects and enforces those
listed rights and liberties, which in turn keep the structure sharp.
