# Toward a More Perfect US Supreme Court

## Summary

### What's the proposal?

I'd like your critical feedback on the following proposed amendment to the US
Constitution.  It's about how we appoint judges to the Supreme Court.  I'm very
proud of it.  Here's the key extract (lightly edited):

    -- SUPREME COURT AMENDMENT --

    The Supreme Court of the United States shall have 10 seats.  A strict
    majority of votes shall determine the outcome of a case; but the most
    junior Justice may not vote except to break ties.

    On May 1st of each odd year, the most senior Justice shall retire.  These
    and other vacancies shall be filled within T=60 days as follows.
     (A) From among the judges of the Appellate Courts shall be identified the
         K=30 judges of most median seniority.  The Senate may interview them.
     (B) The Senate shall select from those K judges k=2 finalists as follows.
         (B.a) Randomly sequence the Senators (and announce this sequence).
         (B.b) Each Senator in sequence shall mark one of the K judges (and
               shall announce this choice to the Senators who follow).
         (B.c) The finalists shall be the k judges with the *fewest* marks.
     (C) The Senate shall privately interview those k finalists.
     (D) Each Senator shall vote for any subset of the k finalists.  The
         finalist with the most votes shall become the newest Justice.

Scroll way down for the full text.

### Why might one support the proposal?

Here are three quick highlights:

    ANTIPARTISAN --- A Senate with 61 Republicans will select a Justice who is
        ~61st percentile, not 99th percentile, on the "Democrat-Republican"
        axis.  The process favors the broadly inoffensive over
        popular-but-polarizing --- a boon to the Court's legitimacy.

    DECISIVE --- Vacancies will be filled without delay.  Indeed, the process
        forces the Senate to choose from a fixed list of candidates rather than
        to confirm individual nominees.  So the Senate has no option to
        continually reject nominees.

    REGULAR --- New justices periodically replace old justices, leading in
        effect to 20-year term limits.  Due to the most junior Justice, these
        transitions do not threaten to evenly divide and thus impair the Court.

### What's the rest of this document?

This post is primarily an advertisement for an amendment to the US
Constitution.  It may be a good time to discussion such amendments: the Supreme
Court's rulings this past decade have enraged both social conservatives and
social liberals, amplifying concerns about the reach of the courts and the
prospect of partisan court packing.  For the first time since the second World
War, members of recent US Congresses (116th, 117th) have formally introduced
Supreme Court amendments.

In its second role, this post is a diary of ideas for the design of
preference-aggregating procedures.  A democracy works (I hope!) when we
exchange ideas and learn from each other.  So here is my contribution.  Though
in my excitement I write as an advocate, I do try to note the gaps and main
uncertainties in my thought.  I'd be pleased to read your thoughts, including
questioning of my premises or value judgements and including insights from
those of you residing outside the US.

##### _TABLE OF CONTENTS_

    Summary
        What's the proposal?
        Why might one support the proposal?
        What's the rest of this document?
        What might I count as a "fix"?
    Toward Decisive Designs
        Stalling
        Decisive procedures; application to the Supreme Court
        Bonus thought on filibusters
        Bonus thought on budgeting
    Toward Antipartisan Designs
        Gerrymandering
        Tension and balance
        Hot potatoes
        Bonus thought on House elections
    Toward Regular Designs
        Term limits and backups
        Presidential influence
        Changing parameters
        Bonus thought on our amendment process
    Appendices
        Related ideas
        Agreeing on randomness
        Analysis of judge data
        Full text

##### _...AREN'T YOU FORGETTING XYZ?  OR, THIS SOUNDS LIKE ABC..._

I probably am / it probably does.  Please comment to teach me!

Note that I list this proposal's full text and discuss related ideas below
(scroll way down).  The full text explains what "most median seniority" means,
that the Vice President breaks ties, how Congress may alter the mentioned
numeric parameters, how the judiciary shall gradually transition upon the
amendment's ratification, and more.

### Would this proposal "fix" the judiciary?

I don't know.

That's why I used the weasel word "toward" in the title.

I devised this amendment mostly on aesthetic grounds; I have no firm argument
that this system "is better for democracy" or "leads to wiser rulings" or
"threatens fewer constitutional crises" than the current system.

##### _WHAT MIGHT I COUNT AS A "FIX"?_

That said, my aesthetic sense is one disturbed by two specific problems I
perceive in the current appointment process:
    (A) unpredictable, election-dominating political hurricanes whenever a
        Justice dies; and
    (B) (apparent) partisanship and thus an erosion of the Court's legitimacy.
A more stable, more obviously nonpartisan system would strike me as more
beautiful.  I believe certain perverse incentives contribute as root causes to
these two problems.  Within simplified models of voting behavior that I
describe below, the new way materially weakens these incentives.  IF those
"problems" are actually so AND I correctly identified some of their root causes
AND the mentioned models are adequately robust THEN the amendment is a
promising step toward my desired, more beautiful judiciary.

Note this personality quirk of mine: I regard "bipartisan" as far from
"nonpartisan", especially when the "bi" refers to a specific party system such
as the US's current one.  Parties are extra-constitutional organizations that,
though regulated, are in essence private.  So I find any canonization of
parties in law quite ugly.  Imagine if we amended Congress's enumerated
power-to-establish-post-offices by explicitly mentioning Fedex and Amazon!

I thus dislike ideas such as that popularized by Buttigieg (to mandate 5
"Republican" and 5 "Democratic" justices on a reformed Supreme Court).  This
might be a key way that your and my notions of "fix" diverge.

 TODO: aesthetic sense about "dry, hard wall of consttitution"

These thoughts guide the design considerations we discuss in the next three
sections.

