## Toward Decisive Designs

### Stalling

Legislators "stall" in many ways.  For example, Senators (perhaps in
anticipation of an upcoming presidential election) may reject a technically
excellent Supreme Court nominee, causing a long vacancy in that Court.  Members
of Congress may engage in partisan deadlock, stranding federal bureaucracies
without a clear budget.  State legislators (perhaps to avoid the acute
unpopularity of a "no" vote) may fail ever to schedule a vote on a proposed
amendment, leaving the latter's ratification open for decades.

Such stalling leads to:

-   more time to deliberate towards a wise choice

-   irregular disruptions to regular governance

-   vast power for those who control procedure

##### _LIMTIED GOVERNMENT_

##### _DECISIVE PROCEDURES_

##### _FUNDAMENTAL QUERIES_

### Whittling for the Supreme Court

To prevent stalling, we ought to adopt decision making procedures that
necessarily terminate with a reasonable decision, i.e., with an answer to the
fundamental question we intend the procedure to address.  Call such procedures
*decisive*.

For ratification of amendments, the question is "*Should this amendment become
supreme law?*"  The possible answers are `yes` or `no`.  To get a decisive
ratification procedure, we may simply impose a time limit.

For appointment of Justices, the question might seem to be "*Should this
particular nominee join the Court?*" --- but I regard that as an
implementation-specific sub-question of this more fundamental question: "*Who
should join the Court?*".  Majority voting to confirm a particular nominee,
even with a time limit, fails to be a decisive procedure, since the Senate
might keep rejecting nominees as its members play a game of chicken, each
Senator unwilling to budge in the face of the time limit.

I propose instead to revise the Court-filling procedure into something like an
election so that certainly *someone* will win:

    WHITTLING PROCEDURE.

        This procedure narrows a list of K candidates to size k.  To make it
        work, we require Senators to outnumber candidates.  (A minor variant,
        where we allow each Senator multiple marks, allows candidates to
        outnumber Senators).

    (A) Randomly sequence the Senators.  Publicly announce this sequence.
    (B) A list of 100+k names shall be prepared by duplicating the K judges as evenly as possible.
    (C) According to that sequence: each Senator in turn eliminates one list entry (or passes).
    (D) When during (C) only k many unique judges remain, they shall be the
        finalists.

 TODO: first explain with K=number of senators+k!

For example, letting `K=179` count the seats of the United States Appellate
Courts, we could use Whittling to select `k=1` finalist as our new Justice.
But, for practicality and other reasons discussed in subsequent sections, we
prefer `K=25` and `k=2`.

Is `K=25` impractically many candidates to consider?  I find it orienting to
recall that Senators in principle read thousands of pages per year in close
detail --- but that in practice their aids and their party leadership share
this burden.  I think that compiling and contemplating dossiers on the
characters, experiences, and jurisprudential philosophies of each of `K=25`
judges is a much lesser burden.

With `k=2`, the Senate may thoroughly interview and decide between multiple
finalists, thus allowing recovery even if a totally unqualified candidate slips
through.  It could be that *both* finalists are totally unqualified; but if
these finalists --- in a sense the least objectionable `8%`(=2/25) of a
seniority-based sample of the highest ranking `21%`(=179/861) of the country's
non-Justice judges --- harbor multiple incompetent judges, then we have bigger
problems to worry about.

We implement the preceding three paragraphs like this:

    APPROVE-AFTER-WHITTLING PROCEDURE.

        This procedure fills a vacancy on the Supreme Court.  It shall conclude
        at most T=60 days after a vacancy arises.

    (A) Select from the judges on the Appellate courts those K=25 judges of the
        most median seniority, not counting those who opt out.
    (B) Narrow that list to k=2 finalists via the Whittling Procedure.
    (C) Each Senator votes for any subset of the k=2 finalists.  The finalist
        with the most votes becomes the newest Justice.

    For step (A), we count vacant seats as most junior when ranking by
    seniority.  Otherwise, the President or setters of the Senate's schedule
    might influence the result by choosing how many judges to confirm shortly
    before step (A) begins.  Likewise, whether or not a judge opts out shall
    not change the numeric ranks given to the other judges.

In step (C) we use "approval voting" instead of "plurality voting" so as to
avoid third-candidate spoiler effects.  This consideration is relevant only
when `k>=3`.

### Presidential influence

The amendment strips the President of immediate influence over Supreme Court
appointments.  However, each President strongly affects future Supreme Court
appointments through their appointments to the Appellate Courts.  This counters
the risk that the Supreme Court gets packed with Justices whose rulings favor
an expansively powerful Senate and a limited, vestigial Presidency.

Here are statistics to refine our sense of scale.  Typical presidents each year
rotate about `4%` to `8%` of the Appellate Courts' seats.  Here are the postwar
presidents together with their number of appointments to the appeals courts.

    ~~~ TABLE ~~~

                ~years  appointees :    chance/yr   rotations :    chance/yr
                office  number seats    seat reset  number seats   rotate
    Truman        8       27: 65           5%         24: 65          5%
    Eisenhower    8       45: 68           8%         44: 68          8%
    Kennedy       3       20: 78           9%         20: 78          9%
    Johnson       5       41: 97           9%         32: 97          7%
    Nixon         6       45: 97           8%         45: 97          8%
    Ford          2       12: 97           6%         12: 97          6%
    Carter        4       56:132 (*)      11%         39:132          7%
    Reagan        8       83:168           6%         65:168          5%
    Bush Sr.      4       42:179           6%         37:179          5%
    Clinton       8       66:179           5%         66:179          5%
    Bush Jr.      8       63:179           4%         63:179          4%
    Obama         8       55:179           4%         55:179          4%
    Trump         4       54:179           8%         54:179          8%
    Biden         2       11:179           3%         11:179          3%

    (*) I think it was this expansion of the courts, undiluted by a double
        term, that allowed Carter to reset so many seats per year of his term.

    Note: by the number of `rotations` we mean the number of appointees minus
          *half* of the seat expansion during the term.  This helps us discount
          for the effect of court expansion.

    Note: we sum 12 regional appeals courts with the federal appeals court;
          and to count seats we use the president's end of term.  There may
          be off-by-one errors in this end-of-term seat-number timing.

    Note: presidents may fill the same seat multiple times.  TODO!

[history of seat number](https://www.uscourts.gov/file/19476/download)
[presidential appointments](https://www.uscourts.gov/file/21619/download)

(TODO : consider practical allowances for appeals courts expansion?)

Thus, we might expect presidents to rotate between 16% and 64% of the seats.
All listed presidents (except Biden) have appointed between 12% and 64%.

Does this give some one former President too much lasting power?  If they
happen to have been the appointer of almost all the K=30 median seniority
judges?

Vacant seats count as most junior.  Judges may opt out, in which case their
seats still count according to their seniority.



### Bonus thought on filibusters

 TODO: merge the bonus throughts subsections
 TODO: copy these details to another file; for this main file, just summarize
    main goals&concerns&resolutions and compare to quadratic voting

Above, we shifted our view about the fundamental question a SCOTUS appointment
procedure ought to answer.  This shift helped us craft a decisive procedure.
We now treat filibusters in the same spirit.

What do filibusters do?  They attempt to answer the question, "*Is opposition to
this bill so intense as to merit overriding a thin majority of yeas?*".
However, the actual filibuster process weighs merely *apparent* intensity.  We
want instead to elicit truthful, calibrated estimates of earnestly felt
intensity.  So let's revise the implementation question to "*Among this palette
of bills, which few bills have opposition so intense as to merit overriding a
thin majority of yeas?*"  This suggests a system that allots to each Senator a
limited budget of "filibuster tokens"; the Senator must choose wisely which
votes to use them on: once used, a token disappears.  In this way we *allow but
penalize* extremism.

As a matter of calibration, we let each token amplify a vote --- say, from
counting as one "yea" or "nay" to two --- rather than obstruct a majority
entirely.  Gangs of Senators would have to spend multiple tokens to obstruct
anything but a nearly-tied majority.

    WEIGHTED VOTE PROCEDURE

    (A) Each regularly elected Senator receives T=2 tokens at the start of their 6-year
        term.  Senators appointed to fill a vacancy inherit their predecessor's tokens.  A
        Senator's tokens expire at the end of their term.

    (B) A "weighted vote" occurs as follows.  Each Senator who holds at least
        one token may choose to "amplify their vote".  Doing so decreases the
        number of tokens they hold by one; it also promotes their vote to count
        as w=2 votes.  The outcome is determined by whether weighted yeas
        outnumber weighted nays.  The Vice President breaks ties.

    Tokens spent on vetoed legislation are not returned.

Now, what new behaviors might this "token system" incentivize?  For example,
what if a thin majority rudely introduces replicas of an obstructed bill,
depleting the opposition's tokens until they can no longer afford to obstruct?
The *threatened* passage of a thin-majority bills is itself something to do
only sparingly.  So let's make that cost tokens, too:

    SENATE VOTING PROCEDURE

        This procedure decides on a bill.  No bill shall pass to the
        President's desk without having been passed by the House and
        *afterward* by this procedure.  This procedure does not apply to the
        Senate's extraordinary activities such as advice-and-consent,
        impeachment trials, veto overrides, constitutional amendments,
        admission of States to the Union, etc.

    (A) The Senators vote with simple yeas and nays.  Should nays outnumber
        yeas, the bill fails.  The Vice President breaks ties.
    (B) Should the bill pass step (A), any f=(2/5)ths of Senators may, by
        spending tokens, initiate a "neofilibuster".  Here's what happens:
        (B.a) The objectors initiate by spending O=2(**) tokens in sum.
        (B.b) The supporters may choose to spend S=3(**) tokens in sum;
              unless they do so, the bill fails.
        (B.c) After d=7(**) days of deliberation shall promptly follow...
        (B.d) ...the Weighted Vote Procedure to determine passage of the bill.
    (C) If no "neofilibuster" occurs, the bill passes.

    The Congress may by a 3/5s unweighted majority in each Chamber, subject to
    the ordinary veto and veto-override procedures, alter the parameters O,S,d
    marked above by (**).

    Note the relation S/(O+S) = 3/5.

The Weighted Voting Procedure is a simplified or "truncated" form of "quadratic
voting".  In certain extreme cases (if there is a large, fixed menu of bills
and if each Senator is substantively uncertain about the other Senators'
preferences, and if these uncertainties are uncorrelated and symmetric with
respect to both bills and Senators), quadratic voting maximizes utility while
our truncated version doesn't.  But those extreme cases do not plausibly model
the Senate.

### Bonus thought on budgeting

Likewise, one decisive procedure for crafting a budget is to ask not "*Is this
 proposed budget acceptable?*" but instead "*Is the current allocation for this
budget item too low or too high?*".  Here's a sketch of such a procedure (we
focus on the House since that chamber originates revenue bills and by
convention also appropriations bills):

    (sketch of) BINARY BUDGETING PROCEDURE

        This procedure results in a budget, that is, a list of items to fund,
        each annotated with the dollar amount allotted and with rules for how
        the funds may be spent.  I imagine it as augmenting House Rules, not
        the US Constitution.

    (A) The House decides on a coarse-grained menu of, say, 1000 items to fund.
        Items might be executive departments, tax cuts, specific programs, etc.
    (B) For each item (in parallel), determine a ceiling $X for the item:
        (B.a) Tentatively set the ceiling to $X=$1.
        (B.b) Each Representative specifies whether they think the current
              ceiling is high enough.
        (B.c) Unless 3/5ths of (B.b)'s votes are yeas, multiply
              X by 10 and repeat (B.b, B.c).
    (C) For each item (in parallel), REPEATEDLY refine the item's allocation interval:
        (C.a) Each item begins with a tentative allocation interval [$0, $X].
        (C.b) Each Representative specifies for each item whether they think
              the current allocation interval leans high or leans low.
        (C.c) According to simple majorities refine the interval [L,H] to
              [L,H-S] or [L+S,H].  Here, S=(H-L) is the interval half-width.
        (C.d) Repeat (C.b, C.c), say, 30 times total.
        (C.e) Allocate to each item with interval [L,H] the midpoint (L+H)/2.
    (D) Representatives may propose revisions to the allocations, revisions
        that must be promptly voted on.  Revisions that merely specify
        fine-grained constraints within a menu item are accepted when a simple
        majority concurs.  Other revisions require a (3/5)ths majority.  At the
        end of 60 days, the allocation passes the House.

One may adapt the above into a decisive procedure to involve the Senate, too.

