## Toward Antipartisan Designs

### Gerrymandering

I understand **gerrymandering** as the failure of (linearity and hence)
associativity of the "majority operation".  To say that "most rows of a
chessboard each have most of their cells occupied" is quite different from
saying that "most of the board's cells are occupied".  Just imagine a 5-by-5
region!  Gerrymandering appears in government when decisions are made by
majorities of majorities.(\*\*)  For example, it is a majority of Electors that
chooses the President; each Elector follows their state's popular majority.
Or, to swap time for space: it is a majority of Justices that decides a case
before the Supreme Court; each Justice (usually) aligns with their appointing
President and thus with a majority of some past Electoral College.
Gerrymandering can feel especially obnoxious when the "parentheses" around the
inner majorities are set politically --- thus it was the strategic shaping of
House districts that gave us the word `gerrymander`.

##### _WHEN DO WE WANT GERRYMANDERING?_

Here are two examples where such a winner-takes-all intermediate step may make
sense: we do not give a greater vote to those people with more brain cells.
Nor does the UN give a greater vote to more populous member states.  These
examples take as their atomic units of experience (to which they give equal
weight) the person or the state rather than the neuron or the person.  On the
other hand, one may dismiss those two examples: the first, as treating systems
(brains) radically more coordinated than human populations; the second, as an
artifact of compromise rather than a long-term optimum.

When we vote in order to aggregate *beliefs* and when each larger unit
agglomerates *correlated* smaller units, then we may aggregate more accurately
by weighing larger units equally.  But when we vote in order to aggregate
*preferences* then it may be more natural to give equal weight to whichever
unit we regard as experiencing utility (usually, the person).(\*\*\*\*)

(\*\*) compare with median-of-medians selection.

(\*\*\*\*) I'd need to stretch in this latter case to justify giving equal
weights instead to groups of people --- perhaps having one's preference
violated feels less bad if most of one's neighbors hold opposing preferences
(bounded-radius empathy); or perhaps there is less risk of violent rebellion or
unchecked resentment when a policy's supporters spread evenly throughout all
regions rather than concentrating in some far-away "capital of empire".

### Tension and balance

To reduce gerrymandering, we want to look beyond majority operations.  I think
of this as *keeping the tension* so that the choices of an individual in a
minority counts despite a clear majority.

### Hot potatoes

CONTINUITY (vs "gerrymander")


We may partially mitigate this sensitivity to sequencing by scheduling multiple
passes through the sequence of Senators so that each Senator ends up marking,
say, thrice.  I did not include this in the proposal's text since it seems
complicated and I have not convinced myself of its substantive value.

##### _BIAS-VARIANCE "GERRYMANDERING"_

Here's a weakness of the proposal.  Consider a (not implausibly) partisan
political atmosphere whose every appointee to the Appellate Courts is "very
red" or "very blue".  FILLIN TODO

### Bonus thought on House Elections

Randomness helps against such gerrymandering

 FILLIN TODO --- randomized house idea

