## Toward Antipartisan Designs

### Parties, Majorities, Gerrymandering

Discontinuity or linearity

Poll and aggregate as two separate functions, conflated in FPTP




`The majority bottleneck`

Gerrymandering appears in government when decisions are made by majorities of
majorities.  For example:

-   It is a majority of Electors that chooses the President;
    each Elector follows their state's popular majority.

Or, to swap time for space:

-   It is a majority of Justices that decides a case;
    each Justice (usually) aligns with their appointing President,
    the latter elected by some past majority.

Gerrymandering can feel especially obnoxious when the "parentheses" around the
inner majorities are set politically --- thus it was the strategic shaping of
House districts that gave us the word `gerrymander`.

Gerrymandering often accompanies an allied nonlinearity:
the equal weighting of majorities in two differently "sized" parts.
The Senate gives an example.

**When do we want gerrymandering?**
Gerrymandering does not always offend:
we grant a greater vote neither
neither to people with more unanimous or active minds (or massive brains!);
nor in the United Nations to more unified or populous member states.
We give equal weight to the person or the state,
not the meme or the person.
One may dismiss those examples: the first, as treating systems
(brains) radically more coordinated than human populations; the second, as a
sorely sub-optimal artifact of compromise.

Still, the examples inspire us to distinguish between aggregation of beliefs
vs of preferences.
When we vote in order to aggregate *beliefs* and when each larger unit
agglomerates *correlated* smaller units, then we may aggregate more accurately
by weighing larger units equally.  But when we vote in order to aggregate
*preferences* then it may be more natural to give equal weight to whichever
unit we regard as experiencing utility (usually, the person).

With some convoluted thought we may even justify giving equal
weights instead to groups of people: perhaps having one's preference
disappointed feels less bad if most of one's neighbors hold opposing preferences
(bounded-radius empathy); or perhaps there is less risk of violent rebellion or
unchecked resentment when a policy's supporters reside evenly throughout all
regions rather than concentrating in some far-away "capital of empire".

Despite the above, I am interested in mechanisms to reduce gerrymandering.

### Tension and balance

To reduce gerrymandering, we want to look beyond majority operations.  I think
of this as *keeping the tension* so that minority individuals have nonzero influence
despite a clear majority.

**Hot potatos.**

CONTINUITY (vs "gerrymander")


We may partially mitigate this sensitivity to sequencing by scheduling multiple
passes through the sequence of Senators so that each Senator ends up marking,
say, thrice.  I did not include this in the proposal's text since it seems
complicated and I have not convinced myself of its substantive value.

##### _BIAS-VARIANCE "GERRYMANDERING"_

Here's a weakness of the proposal.  Consider a (not implausibly) partisan
political atmosphere whose every appointee to the Appellate Courts is "very
red" or "very blue".  FILLIN TODO



### Game Theoretic Analysis of Whittling

 TODO: what about excellence in the courts?  are outliers in excellence
 especially good?  especially bad?

**Basic result.**
Let us pretend that every senator is either red or blue; that the candidates
are ordered from most red to most blue; that this ordering is
known to all senators; and that a red (blue) senator prefers the redder (bluer)
of any two candidates.  We set k=1.  Under these assumptions:

    THEOREM.  If there are R red senators and B blue senators, then any
    sequencing of the senators will whittle K=(R+B+1) candidates to the
    candidate that is more red (blue) than exactly R (B) of the candidates
    (call this the rank (B,R) candidate).

    PROOF.  (Note that with K=N+1, each senator eliminates.)

    We induct on the number R+B of senators.  The case of zero senators
    is clear.  Otherwise, some senator goes first.  Without loss they are red.
    They must select one out of R+B+1 many candidates to eliminate.  By the
    induction hypothesis, the overall winner will have rank-(B,R-1) among the
    remaining candidates.  This is the same as

        the rank-(B  ,R  ) candidate if the senator eliminates any candidate of rank (<B,>R)
        the rank-(B+1,R-1) candidate if the senator eliminates the candidate of rank ( B, R)
        the rank-(B+2,R-2) candidate if the senator eliminates any candidate of rank (>B,<R)

    The senator prefers the first option.  QED

We see that, in fact, it is strategically optimal to vote truthfully/greedily
by eliminating one's most undesired candidate.

 TODO: compare individual voting vs coordinated party-based voting.

The result is robust to ties in the red-blue ordering of candidates.
Thus,

    THEOREM.  If there are R red senators and B blue senators, and
    if a sequencing of the Senators whittles K candidates to k=1
    candidate that is more red (blue) than R' (B') of the candidates,
    then R/ceil(L/K)<=R'<=R/floor(L/K).

 TODO: express in terms of N/K instead of L/K!

**Hot potatoes.**
*What if some candidates are less qualified?*
We now assume in addition to the "normal" candidates, still ordered from reddest to bluest,
`U` many "unqualified" candidates.  Each Senators prefers any normal candidate to any unqualified candidate.

  TODO: mention failed Bush II nominee.

    THEOREM.  If there are R red senators, B blue senators, and if a
    sequencing of the senators whittles K=(R+B+1) candidates,
    of which U are unqualified, to a candidate that is more red (blue)
    than R' (B') of the candidates, then R'<=R-U and B'<=B-U.


 TODO: prove

**Chaotic senators.**
Suspension bridges are beautiful but don't work unless each component
feels gravity's pull.
So far our analysis assumes that each Senator acts according to their
interests.  But sometimes Senators slip up.  *Does this jeopardize
Whittling?*

More precisely, we posit an adversary `C` that secretly controls some Senators.
Each time a Senator is about to vote, they flip a coin;
with small probability `p` it is actually `C` that controls their vote.
For example, maybe `C` tries to appoint unqualified candidates.
We want guarantees that hold no matter what strategy `C` adopts.

**Beyond two factions.**
Our analysis here is especially sketchy.  Still, it is interesting.  

**Other ks.**

    THEOREM.  Say there are R red senators and B blue senators and K=R+B+e+1
    candidates, linearly ordered.  And say the Vice President is red.  Then the
    k=1 winner will be redder than R+e candidates and bluer than B candidates.

    PROOF.  The Vice president essentially has e many votes.  We thus reduce to
    the previous theorem.

Theorem.  Say there are R red senators and B blue senators and K=R+B+1
candidates, of whom u<=R+B are unqualified and the rest are linearly ordered.
Then the winner will be redder than R-u candidates and bluer than B-u
candidates.

Proof.  One verifies by induction that every rational strategy (individually or
partywise) is to eliminate an unqualified whenever the number of unqualifieds
equals the number of senators left including oneself.  TODO: CONTINUE

Aha!  With k=1 and much excess e, the VP's final stage is "absorptive" of the
hot potato burden, leading to greater (senatewise)
proportionality.


### Bonus thoughts on Chamber Leadership and on House Elections


**The Speaker and scheduling votes.**

How shall we choose a Speaker of the House?

    SELECTING SCHEDULERS

        To be done as each new Congress convenes.

    (A) The House shall choose its Speaker by majority vote.
        Should no person attain a strict majority within 3
        rounds of voting, the House shall adopt plurality voting.
        The process shall not exceed 3 days in duration.

    (B) Any large group of Representatives --- that is, a group whose number
        strictly exceeds 1/5 of the House ---
        may appoint from among themselves a Scheduler.
        But no Representative shall participate in multiple groups.

    (C) The Speaker and each Scheduler may schedule a bill
        to be voted on within 14 days.

In `(B)` there will be at most `4` Schedulers appointed; and except for
cases of extraordinary disagreement even within small factions of the House,
all `4` spots will be filled.


 TODO: discuss Hastert Rule --- connect with majorities of majorities


**House elections.**

Randomness helps against such gerrymandering

 FILLIN TODO --- randomized house idea


