## Toward Regular Designs

### Disuniformity and Asymmetry

### Transitions; Is the 10th Justice packing?

Should the proposed appointment process be scheduled to begin immediately after
ratification, the timing of ratification would be intensely political: the most
senior Justice would retire and the new Junior seat would appear, leaving two
vacancies (one non-voting) for a president to fill.

It seems less partisan to schedule various measures in the amendment to begin
a fixed time after ratification:

-   Starting 4 years post-ratification (appeals court term limits):

    The Supreme Court shall have have 9 seats.  The most junior Justice may
    vote as usual.

    The Justices shall choose as usual whether and when to retire.

    Such and other vacancies shall be filled as usual: by the President with
    the advice and consent of the Senate.

    (*)  No one shall serve more than T=35 years as a judge of the Appellate
    Courts (senior status does not count).

-   Starting 4 years post-ratification (regular mandated retirements):

    The Supreme Court shall have have 9 seats.  The most junior Justice may
    vote as usual.

    (**)  In June of each odd year, unless within the past 24 months a vacancy
    arose, the most senior Justice shall retire.

    Such and other vacancies shall be filled as usual: by the President with
    the advice and consent of the Senate.

    (*)  No one shall serve more than T=30 years as a judge of the Appellate
    Courts (senior status does not count).

-   Starting 8 years after ratification (court expands with non-voting seat):

    (*)  The Supreme Court shall have 10 seats.  The newly arisen vacancy shall
    occur in May.  When and after that vacancy is filled, the junior Justice
    may not vote except to break ties.

    (**)  In June of each odd year, unless within the past 24 months a vacancy
    arose, the most senior Justice shall retire.

    Such and other vacancies shall be filled as usual: by the President with
    the advice and consent of the Senate.

    (*)  No one shall serve more than T=25 years as a judge of the Appellate
    Courts (senior status does not count).

-   Starting 12 years post-ratification (new appointment process begins)

    (**)  The Supreme Court shall have 10 seats.  Whether or not the 10th seat
    has been filled, the most junior Justice may not vote except to break ties.

    (**) In June of each odd year, unless within the past 24 months a vacancy
    arose, the most senior Justice shall retire.

    (**) Such and other vacancies shall be filled by the whittling procedure
    described in the Amendment.

    (**)  No one shall serve more than T=20 years as a judge of the Appellate
    Courts (senior status does not count).

All measures are in effect starting 12 years (3 presidential elections) since
ratification.  Presidents tend to make ~25-40 appointments to the appeals
courts per presidential term(\*).  So we expect ~75-120 appointments over 3
presidential terms.  Some of these may be appointments to the same,
multiply-vacated seat --- with statistically independent vacancies, we expect x
appointments to lead to `(1-exp(-x/179)) * 179` new and seated judges, meaning
~61-87 new and seated judges.  At another extreme, if we assume vacancies arise
due to retirements that occur strictly in order of seniority, then there will
be ~75-120 new and seated judges.  Overall, we may conservatively expect
~61-120 new and seated judges after 3 presidential terms --- between one third
and two thirds of the total seats.

More than 60% of the currently seated (~168) appeals judges were appointed in
the past 3 terms (including JRB's not-yet-full-term).  More than 85% were
appointed in the past 6 terms.

                            JEC RWR RWR|GHB WJC WJC|GWB GWB BHO|BHO DJT JRB|
1st circuit: of ~ 4 seats,             |           |           |     4     |
2nd circuit: of ~13 seats,             |     1     |     2     |    10     |
3rd circuit: of ~12 seats,             |           |     3     |     9     |
4th circuit: of ~13 seats,             |     3     |     5     |     5     |
5th circuit: of ~16 seats,       2     |     1     |     6     |     7     |
6th circuit: of ~16 seats,             |     3     |     5     |     8     |
7th circuit: of ~10 seats,             |     2     |     1     |     7     |
8th circuit: of ~11 seats,             |     1     |     5     |     5     |
9th circuit: of ~29 seats,             |     4     |     7     |    18     |
10thcircuit: of ~11 seats,             |           |     4     |     7     |
11thcircuit: of ~11 seats,             |     1     |     2     |     8     |
dc  circuit: of ~13 seats,             |     1     |           |     9     |
fed circuit: of ~12 seats,       1     |     2     |     3     |     6     |



 Moreover, the point

is that the K=50 many candidates of median seniority would likely include `179`

These are timed along with Presidential terms to "clear the pipes", so
to speak.  3 presidential elections will have occured since ratification;

(\*)  There have been 8 full presidential terms during which the appeals courts
have had 179 seats: Bush Sr through Trump, spanning [1993,2021).  The
appellate appointments per term are, in increasing order:
24,25,29,30,35,35,40,53.  The number of vacancies remaining are, in increasing
order: 2,12,16,17,17,18,21,25.

### Terms limits, backups, transition: on Time

    REVOLVING DOOR PROCEDURE.

        This procedure maintains a queue of 10 Supreme Court Justices.  The
        most junior Justice hears cases, deliberates, and may write opinions;
        but they may not vote except to break ties.  The most junior Justice
        thus votes only in the event of a vacancy or recusal.

    (A) On May 1 of each odd year, the most senior Justice retires.
    (B) Whenever a vacancy arises, including by step (A), fill that vacancy via
        the Approve-after-Whittling Procedure.

### Presidential influence

The amendment strips the President of immediate influence over Supreme Court
appointments.  However, each President strongly affects future Supreme Court
appointments through their appointments to the Appellate Courts.  This counters
the risk that the Supreme Court gets packed with Justices whose rulings favor
an expansively powerful Senate and a limited, vestigial Presidency.

Here are statistics to refine our sense of scale.  Typical presidents each year
rotate about `4%` to `8%` of the Appellate Courts' seats.  Here are the postwar
presidents together with their number of appointments to the appeals courts.

    ~~~ TABLE ~~~

                ~years  appointees :    chance/yr   rotations :    chance/yr
                office  number seats    seat reset  number seats   rotate
    Truman        8       27: 65           5%         24: 65          5%
    Eisenhower    8       45: 68           8%         44: 68          8%
    Kennedy       3       20: 78           9%         20: 78          9%
    Johnson       5       41: 97           9%         32: 97          7%
    Nixon         6       45: 97           8%         45: 97          8%
    Ford          2       12: 97           6%         12: 97          6%
    Carter        4       56:132 (*)      11%         39:132          7%
    Reagan        8       83:168           6%         65:168          5%
    Bush Sr.      4       42:179           6%         37:179          5%
    Clinton       8       66:179           5%         66:179          5%
    Bush Jr.      8       63:179           4%         63:179          4%
    Obama         8       55:179           4%         55:179          4%
    Trump         4       54:179           8%         54:179          8%
    Biden         2       11:179           3%         11:179          3%

    (*) I think it was this expansion of the courts, undiluted by a double
        term, that allowed Carter to reset so many seats per year of his term.

    Note: by the number of `rotations` we mean the number of appointees minus
          *half* of the seat expansion during the term.  This helps us discount
          for the effect of court expansion.

    Note: we sum 12 regional appeals courts with the federal appeals court;
          and to count seats we use the president's end of term.  There may
          be off-by-one errors in this end-of-term seat-number timing.

    Note: presidents may fill the same seat multiple times.  TODO!

[history of seat number](https://www.uscourts.gov/file/19476/download)
[presidential appointments](https://www.uscourts.gov/file/21619/download)

(TODO : consider practical allowances for appeals courts expansion?)

Thus, we might expect presidents to rotate between 16% and 64% of the seats.
All listed presidents (except Biden) have appointed between 12% and 64%.

Does this give some one former President too much lasting power?  If they
happen to have been the appointer of almost all the K=30 median seniority
judges?

Vacant seats count as most junior.  Judges may opt out, in which case their
seats still count according to their seniority.




### Changing parameters

##### _TRANSIENT STAGE_

##### _PARAMETER TUNING

Congress may expand the courts (to relieve ever-growing case burdens).  Such
changes of parameters lie somewhere between a Constitutional Amendment and
ordinary law.  So let's use an intermediate criterion for passage:

    The Congress may by a 3/5ths unweighted majority in each Chamber, subject
    to the ordinary veto and veto-override procedures, alter the following
    numeric parameters: T, K, k, N, ...

We use `3/5` instead of `1/2` so as not to tempt a thin majority toward packing
the Appellate Courts and thus toward shifting future Supreme Court
appointments.  We further counter this temptation by adding a time delay:

    When appointing Justices to the Supreme Court: each additional seat on the
    Appellate Courts shall, 12 years after its addition and no earlier, be
    considered in seniority computations and be eligible for inclusion in lists
    of candidates.

### Bonus thought on our amendment process

I propose:

    The Congress, with the agreement of 2/3s of both its Chambers, shall
    propose Amendments to this Constitution.  Thereupon the People of each
    State shall, at the first Presidential Election occuring at least 12 months
    after the proposal, vote on the Proposal.  Unless in 1/4 of the States the
    Nays exceed the Yeas, the Amendment shall be valid to all intents and
    purposes as part of this Constitution.

    No Amendment shall be proposed that would deprive a State, without the
    State's consent, of its equal suffrage in the Senate.

 TODO: college of amendment?

In every 25th year the People of each State shall elect a number of
Amenders equal to the whole number of Senators and Representatives to which
the State may be entitled in the Congress.  But no Senator or
Representative, or person holding an Office of Trust or Profit under the
United States shall be appointed an Amender.

### Bonus thought on gerrymandered districts

State legislatures prescribe the procedure for state-level and national-level
elections held within their state.  For example, they have historically levied
poll taxes (now prohibited by Amendment 24) and they have gerrymandered
district maps (still allowed).

National oversight has serious drawbacks.  In our federal system, we like the
blessings of decorrelation (we accept some bias to decrease variance) gotten
through independence of the several states.  For example, if one national
elections board could draw all district lines, they could do so to favor
Republicans in all states.

I prefer the current way, where gerrymanderng benefits Republicans in some
(many) states and costs them in (several) others.

I feel compelled to this third way: mandate an "independent" election oversight
board in each state.  I propose:

    A.  The Elections Board of each State shall determine the Manner of and
    Districts for the State and federal Elections within that State.  The Board
    shall strive to guarantee a proportional, republican form of Government to
    the People of the State.

    B.  The Elections Board shall seat 8 members.  The most junior Member shall
    have no Vote, save to break Ties in Case of Absences.  In each odd year the
    most senior Member shall resign.  Such and other Vacancies shall be filled
    within 90 days by the Governor with the Advice and Consent of the State
    Legislature.

    C.  The work of the Board shall be subject to judicial Review by the State
    Courts.

    D.  State Constitutions may explicitly provide for the Removal, for
    Unfitness or for Cause, of Members of the Board.

B establishes a queue robust to absences.  We want to avoid a Trump-era
paralayzed FEC situation.

The legal novelty of this proposed amendment, separate from meddling with
State Governments, is A's word "proportional".  This clarifies Article 4's
guarantee to a "republican form of [state-level] Government".

### Bonus thought on representation for the District of Columbia

We want regularity in space (not just time).  It feels a worse violation to
deny residents of DC votes in the Senate than to regard DC as a (special
federal zone) within a particular state such as Maryland.  The former breaks
symmetry between people; the latter, merely between states.

    Residents of the District of Columbia shall, for the purpose of
    apportioning and electing members of Congress and of the Presidential
    Electoral College, shall count as residents of the State of Maryland.

This amendment achieves its goal only incompletely: the ratification of
Amendments still does not involve DC.
