## Appendices

### Related ideas

Note: we refer below to some recent congressional activity.  For this purpose,
`X.Y.N` stands for "item number `N` of kind `Y` in the `X`th congress" found at
`www.congress.gov/bill/Xth-congress/Y/N`.  For example, `116.house-bill.8424`
stands for "item number `8424` of kind `house-bill` in the `116`th congress"
found at `www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/house-bill/8424`

##### _TERM LIMITS, SCHEDULED APPOINTMENTS, SENIORITY QUEUES_

 TODO: comment on supreme court regularity act

**To establish 18 year term limits and a seniority-based queue**:
[116.house-bill.8424 ](www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/house-bill/8424 );
[117.house-bill.5140 ](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/5140 );
[117.house-bill.8500 ](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/8500 );
[117.senate-bill.4706](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/4706);

 TODO: comment on

harvardlawreview.org/2021/05/the-future-of-supreme-court-reform
fixthecourt.com/fix/term-limits
fixthecourt.com/2020/09/tl-statute
fixthecourt.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/FTCA-7.5.22.pdf
americanprogress.org/article/need-supreme-court-term-limits
nytimes.com/2018/09/18/opinion/columnists/brett-kavanaugh-supreme-court-term-limits
scotustermlimits.org/

### Related Ideas : For and Against Expanding the Court

Is the 10th Justice packing?

**To expand the Supreme Court to 13 seats**
[117.house-bill.2584 ](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/2584 );
[117.senate-bill.1141](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/1141);

**To fix the Supreme Court to 9 seats**
[117.house-joint-resolution.11](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-joint-resolution/11);
[117.house-joint-resolution.39](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-joint-resolution/39);
[117.house-joint-resolution.40](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-joint-resolution/40);
[117.house-resolution.351     ](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-resolution/351     );
[117.senate-bill.461          ](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/461          );
[117.senate-joint-resolution.4](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-joint-resolution/4);
[117.senate-joint-resolution.9](www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-joint-resolution/9);

 TODO: comment on buttigieg court packing
theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/06/buttigiegs-supreme-court-plan-and-democratic-party/590905
yalelawjournal.org/feature/how-to-save-the-supreme-court

##### _STRUCTURE OF FOREIGN COURTS OF LAST RESORT_

 TODO: comment on how they do it in Taiwan, Uruguay, India, Mauritius, Norway.

### Agreeing on Randomness

##### _A RANDOMNESS GENERATION PROCEDURE_

We saw in "Hot potatoes" that Supreme Court appointment outcomes depend subtly
on how we sequence Senators.  So we want to sequence Senators in a fair, random
manner.  Mere coin tosses won't do, since they'd require us to trust blindly
that the tosser didn't use a trick coin or sleight-of-hand.  The process should
be not only fair but *verifiably* so.

Here's an elegant way to meet these goals.  This method relies on three
trust-enhancing tools: a "hash function", a clear plastic box, and trusted live
television.  The method results in a "heads" or "tails" that all involved
parties have compelling reason to regard as random.

Actually, let's simulate 1000 coin tosses, not just 1.  That's enough to inform
random choices such as a sequencing of Senators.  We write **seq** as shorthand
for *a sequence of 1000 binary digits*.  Seqs are small enough for us humans to
manipulate them manually --- we may represent a seq as a 15-by-15 grid of
letters A-Z --- yet long enough to stand secure against quantum Grover attacks.

    HOW TO FLIP A COIN FAIRLY
    "The many-handed coin flip"

        This procedure generates a seq, to be regarded as a completely random
        seq, by aggregating seqs from concerned parties (say, Senators).

    (A) Each Senator k:
        (A.a) privately chooses a "private seq" (call it s(k))
        (A.b) computes their "public seq" h(s(k))
        (A.c) publicizes a value y(k), which they swear to be their public seq
    (B) The Senators assemble to reveal their seqs on live television:
        (B.a) Each brings a piece of paper, folded so as to hide its contents,
              on which is drawn their name k and a seq p(k) that they swear to
              match their private sequence.
        (B.b) The Senators commit their piece of paper to a clear plastic box.
        (B.c) Each paper is taken out, unfolded, and its contents televised.
    (C) Each Senator's p(k) is verified to obey the relation h(p(k)) = y(k).
        Senators for whom this relation fails are reprimanded.
    (D) Sum all the verified p(k)'s to get the overall "random" seq.

##### _WHY NOT A SIMPLER PROCEDURE?_

Steps (A,C,D) alone form a randomness generation procedure.  More precisely, we
might replace step (B) by:
    (B') Each Senator in sequence publicly announces some seq p(k).  They swear
         that p(k) matches their private seq s(k)
However, this gives undue power to the last Senator in the sequence, since they
may choose whether or not to truthfully reveal s(k) based on their knowledge of
the previous Senators' announcements and thus how either choice would determine
the resulting "random" seq.  The point of (B) is to force all choices of
whether to be truthful to come *before* the private seqs s(k) are announced.

Steps (B,D) alone form a randomness generation procedure.  More precisely, we
might replace steps (A,C) respectively by:
    (A') Each Senator k: privately chooses a "private seq"
    (C') do nothing
However, this variant procedure is harder to verify because it can offer no
evidence to counter a Senator's false post-hoc claim (perhaps asserted in light
of an unfavorable result) that the step (B) videostream had been corrupted.  By
contrast, the full procedure (A,B,C,D) publicly broadcasts pairs (y(k),p(k))
whose first elements y(k) each Senator individually controls and against which
folks at home may check the second elements p(k).

Overall, this method for generating randomness relies on some-but-not-much
respect for procedure.  Perhaps as much respect as Senators must have during
the pro forma tallying of presidential electoral votes.  There is no space for
"softly" bad faith actions (e.g. for strategic interpretations of procedure).

Computers can easily do all computations involved.  So in practice each Senator
may delegate their role to trusted computer-savvy clerks.

##### _ASSUMPTIONS AND GUARANTEES_

Our procedure is "fair" unless all senators "conspire".  Here's what I mean
precisely.  Let's adopt some fixed Senator k's point of view.  During the
QUASI-COIN procedure they choose values for s(k),p(k),y(k).  Each choice may
depend on publically announced knowledge, their private knowledge (of their own
previous choices), and potentially some private knowledge of other Senators
with which they conspire.  Each Senator

 FILLIN

is: IF at least one Senator would benefit from the resulting seq being
completely random rather than whatever it would be were the other Senators to
have their way, then the resulting seq will indeed be completely random.

We rely on these properties of "hashing":

    -- Each seq S has exactly one hash H=h(S).
    -- H is easy to compute from S.
    -- It is intractably hard to construct given H a seq whose hash equals H.
       For instance, S is intractably hard to compute from H.

 FILLIN

##### _ROBUSTNESS TO CONSPIRACY_

(These reasons stem from a careful pitting of privacy against transparency.  I
think of a tensegrity sculpture.)

 FILLIN
 TODO : sketch proof

### Analysis of judge data

##### _BAYESIAN MODEL OF JUDGE ALIGNMENT_
##### _INFERENCE METHODS_
##### _SOURCES AND PREPARATION OF DATA_

##### _SIMULATING THE WHITTLING METHOD_

### Full text

##### _I.  THE SUPREME COURT_

    I.i

    The Supreme Court of the United States shall have 10 Justices.  A strict
    majority of votes shall determine the outcome of a case; but the most
    junior Justice may not vote except to break ties.

    I.ii

    On May 1st of each odd year, the most senior Justice shall retire.

    I.iii

    Those and other vacancies shall be filled within D=60(**) days as follows:

    (A) The K=30(**) judges of most median seniority, shall, by the following
        methods, be identified from among the judges of the Appellate Courts:
        (A.a) Each judge shall be allowed to opt out.
        (A.b) Seniorities shall be computed as follows.  A judge has seniority
              s when that judge has not opted out AND there are s many judges,
              including those who opted out, whose date of confirmation
              coincides with or precedes that of the judge in question.
        (A.c) The K candidates shall be the judges who have seniority closest
              to N/2.  Here, N counts the Appellate Courts' seats.
    (B) From those K candidates shall be selected k=2(**) finalists as follows:
        (B.a) The Senate may interview these candidates.
        (B.b) The Senate shall, in uniformly random manner, sequence its
              Senators and shall make this sequence known to all Senators.
        (B.c) Each Senator in sequence shall mark one of the K candidates
              and shall make their choice known to the Senators who follow.
        (B.d) The finalists shall be the k candidates with the fewest marks.
    (C) The Senate shall privately interview those k finalists.
    (D) Each Senator shall vote for any subset of the k finalists.  The
        finalist with the most votes shall become the newest Justice.

    At each applicable step (A.c, B.d, D), the Vice President shall break ties.

    Should fewer than K judges remain after step (A.a), then in place of steps
    (A.b, A.c), the President shall nominate additional qualified persons so as
    to yield K candidates total.

    Should a judge have been confirmed multiple times to the Appellate Courts,
    the date of confirmation used in (A.b) shall be the most recent one.

##### _II.  THE APPELLATE COURTS_

    II.i

    The Appellate Courts of the United States shall have N=179(**) seats.
    Congress may expand these Courts as described below; each additional seat
    shall count toward I.iii's procedure W=12(**) years after its addition and
    no earlier.  And seats resolved by Congress to be removed shall be removed
    no earlier than W years after Congress so resolves.

    Judges of the Appellate Courts shall be appointed by the President, with
    the consent of a simple unweighted majority of the Senate, to fill
    vacancies as they arise.  The Senate shall vote on one nominee at a time.

    II.ii

    No one shall serve more than T=20(**) years as a judge of the Appellate
    Courts.

##### _III.  TRANSITION AND TUNING_

    III.i

    Upon Ratification of this Amendment, sections I.i, II, and III shall take
    immediate effect.  However, section I.ii shall take effect 8 years after
    Ratification and no earlier.  And section I.iii shall take effect
    12 years after Ratification and no earlier.

    Moreover, II.ii shall be understood not to count years served before
    Ratification of this Amendment.

    III.ii

    The Congress may by a 3/5s unweighted majority in each Chamber, subject to
    the ordinary veto and veto-override procedures, alter the parameters D, K,
    k, N, W, T marked above by (**).

